Add Git and GitHub section to SOP (#52)
emlab-ucsb/SOP: 04-gh/05-branches.qmd

:::

### Step 2: Create a branch

In the terminal:

```bash
git switch -c my-branch-name
```

This creates a new branch starting at the latest commit on `main` and switches to it immediately. In Positron and VS Code, you can also create a branch by clicking the branch name in the bottom-left corner and selecting **Create new branch**. In RStudio, use the branch dropdown in the Git pane.

Branch names should be short, lowercase, and descriptive. Use hyphens to separate words. A name like `add-spatial-aggregation` or `fix-missing-species-filter` is much more useful than `new-branch` or `working`. If the branch corresponds to a GitHub Issue, you can create it directly from the issue page (see [Using Issues](04-issues.qmd)), which will name it automatically and link it to the issue.

### Step 3: Do your work and commit

> Make your changes, stage them, and commit as you go. There is no need to finish all the work before making your first commit -- commit each logical unit of change as you complete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make your changes, stage them, and commit as you go. A branch should usually contain multiple commits with informative messages before you request review, because it helps your reviewers understand your thought process. Commit each logical unit of change as you complete it.
```
